---
layout: post
title: "In review: week 10"
author: Justin Taylor
categories: [blog, university]
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

It was a big week, covering Peter Laurie's 6 key things to software development, a QA with a recruiter, and the usual side project stuff.

<!--more-->

## The 6 Key Things

Basically a Code Network starter pack at this point. This is the second time I've seen it. This time I took notes.

- **Source code control**
  - Use a version control system. Git is good. Make sure you're using it properly, so you can work within a team
- **Formal releases**
  - Releases must be versioned. Something like [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/) would be a good fit, although it doesn't matter as long as the release format is specified and adhered to.
  - To that end, Git offers tagging. Use it to tag releases.
- **Automated builds**
  - Create a buildscript. Check it into the repo along with everything else.
  - This is going to be dependant on the tools and language, but the principle is the same: have a formal, scripted build process. Make sure it covers dependancies
- **Developer tests**
  - Test driven development is a great way to write less bugs.
    - Write a test, write the code, run the test. Repeat until the test passes
  - Code coverage is a useful metric here, it tells you how much of your code is being tested.
  - Mutation testing can be used to determine how good your tests are. If the original code and the mutated code return the same result, you need better tests
- **Continuous integration**
  - Write more tests. Run them as part of the automated builds.
  - Use a watcher to automate building as the repo changes
- **Collaboration tools**
  - Keeps everyone in the loop.
  - Tools include: Jira, bamboo, confluence, github, gitlab.

## QA with Harold Liu

This was an event at UQ. The most useful takeaway for me was not to be afraid to reach out to people at companies you'd like to work at. Tom Scott said something similar in one of his videos, that you shouldn't be afraid of wasting the big man's time.

## Side projects

As an exercise in design (both graphical and user experience) I've started to build a markdown editor with Electron.js. The UI and features for the first release are set, and I'm going to start coding next week.
